Add verbose_pipeline documentation section in using-search-pipeline (#9130)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/search-pipelines/debugging-search-pipeline.md

---
layout: default
title: Debugging a search pipeline
nav_order: 20
has_children: false
parent: Search pipelines
grand_parent: Search
---

# Debugging a search pipeline

> The `verbose_pipeline` parameter offers detailed insights into the flow and transformation of data through each processor in the search pipeline. It facilitates troubleshooting, pipeline optimization, and ensures transparency in the end-to-end handling of search requests and responses. This functionality is available for all three ways of using a search pipeline：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `verbose_pipeline` parameter offers detailed insights into the flow and transformation of data through search request, search response and search phase processor in the search pipeline. It facilitates troubleshooting, pipeline optimization, and ensures transparency in the end-to-end handling of search requests and responses. This functionality is available for all three ways of using a search pipeline：
```

- [Specifying an existing pipeline for a request]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/using-search-pipeline/#specifying-an-existing-search-pipeline-for-a-request).

- [Using a temporary pipeline for a request]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/using-search-pipeline/#using-a-temporary-search-pipeline-for-a-request).

- [Setting a default pipeline for all requests in an index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/using-search-pipeline/#default-search-pipeline).

>   To enable the `verbose_pipeline` feature, simply add `verbose_pipeline=true` as a query parameter in your search request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To enable the `verbose_pipeline` feature, add `verbose_pipeline=true` as a query parameter in your search request.
```

### Example request with verbose pipeline

You can specify the `verbose_pipeline` parameter in the query to enable detailed debugging. The `verbose_pipeline` parameter works seamlessly across all search pipeline configurations:

> #### Default Search Pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### With Default Search Pipeline
```

To use `verbose_pipeline` with a default search pipeline, set the pipeline as the default in the index settings and include `verbose_pipeline=true` in the query:

```json
PUT /my_index/_settings
{
  "index.search.default_pipeline": "my_pipeline"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

```json
GET /my_index/_search?verbose_pipeline=true
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> #### Specified Search Pipeline by ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### With Specified Search Pipeline by ID
```

To use `verbose_pipeline` with a specific search pipeline, specify the pipeline ID along with verbose_pipeline=true in the query:
```json
GET /my_index/_search?search_pipeline=my_pipeline&verbose_pipeline=true
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> #### Temporary Search Pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### With Temporary Search Pipeline
```

```json
POST /my_index/_search?verbose_pipeline=true
{
  "query": {
    "match": { "text_field": "some search text" }
  },
  "search_pipeline": {
    "request_processors": [
      {
        "filter_query": {
          "query": { "term": { "visibility": "public" } }
        }
      }
    ],
    "response_processors": [
      {
        "collapse": {
          "field": "category"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}
### Example response with verbose pipeline

When the `verbose_pipeline` parameter is enabled, the response contains an additional `processor_results` field that details the transformations applied by each processor in the pipeline:

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Response
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta}

```json
{
  "took": 40,
  "timed_out": false,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "skipped": 0,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 1,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 0.0,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "my_index",
        "_id": "1",

>         "_score": 0.0,

Reviewer 2: can you make the score something positive, even if it's just for the sake of example. matches with score 0.0 looks a bit suspicious.

---
layout: default
title: Debugging a search pipeline
nav_order: 25
has_children: false
parent: Search pipelines
grand_parent: Search
---

# Debugging a search pipeline

> The `verbose_pipeline` parameter provides detailed insights into data flow and transformations for the search request, search response, and search phase processors in the search pipeline. It helps with troubleshooting and optimizing the pipeline and ensures transparency in handling search requests and responses. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `verbose_pipeline` parameter provides detailed information about the data flow and transformations for the search request, search response, and search phase processors in the search pipeline. It helps with troubleshooting and optimizing the pipeline and ensures transparency in handling search requests and responses. 
```

## Enabling debugging

> To enable pipeline debugging, specify `verbose_pipeline=true` as a query parameter in your search request. This functionality is available for all three methods of using a search pipeline:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable pipeline debugging, specify `verbose_pipeline=true` as a query parameter in your search request. This functionality is available for all three search pipeline methods:
```

- [Default search pipeline](#default-search-pipeline)
- [Specific search pipeline](#specific-search-pipeline)
- [Temporary search pipeline](#temporary-search-pipeline)

### Default search pipeline

To use `verbose_pipeline` with a default search pipeline, set the pipeline as the default in the index settings and include `verbose_pipeline=true` in the query:

```json
PUT /my_index/_settings
{
  "index.search.default_pipeline": "my_pipeline"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

```json
GET /my_index/_search?verbose_pipeline=true
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

For more information about default search pipelines, see [Setting a default pipeline for all requests in an index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/using-search-pipeline/#default-search-pipeline).

### Specific search pipeline 

To use `verbose_pipeline` with a specific search pipeline, specify the pipeline ID and include `verbose_pipeline=true` in the query:

```json
GET /my_index/_search?search_pipeline=my_pipeline&verbose_pipeline=true
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> For more information, about using specific search pipelines see [Specifying an existing pipeline for a request]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/using-search-pipeline/#specifying-an-existing-search-pipeline-for-a-request).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information about using specific search pipelines, see [Specifying an existing pipeline for a request]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/using-search-pipeline/#specifying-an-existing-search-pipeline-for-a-request).
```

### Temporary search pipeline

To use `verbose_pipeline` with a temporary search pipeline, define the pipeline directly in the request body and include `verbose_pipeline=true` in the query:

```json
POST /my_index/_search?verbose_pipeline=true
{
  "query": {
    "match": { "text_field": "some search text" }
  },
  "search_pipeline": {
    "request_processors": [
      {
        "filter_query": {
          "query": { "term": { "visibility": "public" } }
        }
      }
    ],
    "response_processors": [
      {
        "collapse": {
          "field": "category"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

For more information about using a temporary search pipeline, see [Using a temporary pipeline for a request]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/using-search-pipeline/#using-a-temporary-search-pipeline-for-a-request).

## Example response

> When the `verbose_pipeline` parameter is enabled, the response contains an additional `processor_results` field that details the transformations applied by each processor in the pipeline:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the `verbose_pipeline` parameter is enabled, the response contains an additional `processor_results` field that provides information about the transformations applied by each processor in the pipeline:
```
